you know airplanes and jet liners are a
limitless source of awe for people but
let's face it we also can be afraid of
them sometimes it can be especially
unsettling to know you're about to fly
on an older plane but you can learn the
age of your plane and find out many
other things Airlines won't tell you
easily older airplanes aren't really bad
for your jet lag and overall comfort
their cabins are made of aluminum and
the air inside gets really dry during a
flight it can make your skin dry you'll
feel thirsty all the time and the eyes
will get itchy the next day after a
flight you won't feel any better just
believe me
other than that older planes won't fly
worse than younger ones so you won't
experience any difference that a big
bottle of water and a moisturizer won't
fix for you the old age for a normal
commercial airplane starts somewhere
around 24 years but even an old plane
can still fly without significant risk
as long as there's a way to repair it
the problem is an old plane is difficult
to maintain at some point something so
costly and important breaks that it's
easier just to build and buy a shiny new
plane than to repair the old one
somewhere between 27 and 30 years any
plane faces the inevitable retirement
but not all of them and their days in
the middle of some desert rusting and
falling apart
an aviation salvage service then decides
their fate some old planes still contain
a lot of valuable parts that can still
be used there's a huge market breathing
and feeding off these salvages the rest
of the plane usually gets scrapped and
recycled you can find information about
your flight on the page of the airline
you choose here you'll see a coded name
for your particular flight which you can
use to find info about your plane with
special services or apps they usually
have a map with all the flights
monitored online right during their time
in the air but most importantly they
will list a history of a plane's flight
this is important to know because the
wear of a plane depends on the number of
pressurization cycle as it goes through
during its service simply put the more
times an airplane goes through taking
off and landing the more it gets worn
and airplanes going on long distance
flights don't age as fast as those doing
it more often some planes will have a
tablet hanging right near the cabins
entrance made of metal are covered with
some sort of fire protection this sign
will provide information about the plane
including its serial number and
sometimes the date of production even if
the latter isn't listed here you can
quickly search the age of the plane
using its serial number an older plane
will have weary seats with no
entertainment systems built in them
carpets will be tattered too there will
be a yellow tint to walls and probably
some ceiling panels will not sit tight
in their places go to the bathroom there
might be an ashtray a sign of really old
times but most probably you'll never
meet anything like this any commercial
airplane regularly goes through lots of
health check procedures between flights
including special ultrasonic testing
several ultrasonic beam scanning
materials of the fuselage to detect any
imperfections in possible cracks it
helps to keep passengers safe flight
names seem random but they can tell a
lot of things the first two letters are
a carriers code next go the number if
it's odd the plane assigned for flights
west or southwards and if it's even East
or northwards
long-distance flights usually have
shorter numbers sometimes you can see
these rules not working but those
flights are just exceptions bad weather
or turbulence scares us the most but
pilots are more worried about updrafts
the heated ground will admit an upward
stream of hot air and make it less
liable for a plane airlines won't tell
you that up front but the safest flights
take off in the morning when the ground
is still not warm enough your safety is
the number one priority on a flight a
good example pilots of your plane never
eat the same food or they eat separately
from each other this helps to avoid even
the minimal possibility that they both
get sick when pilot should taste the
food they'll wait for an hour to see the
result and then the other can eat too if
you're sure about your safety
but you always feel cold during flights
choose seats in the back of the plane if
you like it fresh and cool your seat
should be in the front the safest seats
though are 5 rows from each emergency
exit planes are always bending and
shaking a bit the speed and pressure of
air is too huge to prevent that but
they're made to withstand it if you want
to feel less of those disturbances book
seats in the middle of the plane near
the wings it's the most stable place but
don't look outside too much wings are
bending too and it's also absolutely
normal you don't need to worry if a seat
belt sign starts blinking over your seat
just follow the instructions but if this
sign appears for attendants of your
flight this is how you know that it's
going to get shaky soon still it doesn't
mean something bad is going to happen at
all pilots mostly don't tell all the
information they have about problems
during the flight that might cause panic
and nobody wants that instead they say
smooth their versions like they will
tell you that there is a cloudy area up
ahead but in reality it means pilots
can't see anything outside so-called air
pockets are also just a soft name for an
initial shake that may mean upcoming
turbulence your laptop is not welcome on
an airplane not because it may cause
some electromagnetic disturbances or
something but mostly because it
effectively becomes a heavy projectile
in an extreme situation the same goes
for portable game consoles and
smartphones which are also getting
bigger every year
airlines also won't tell you that pilots
have a really tough job they work all
day and then they sleep in hotel rooms
some of which barely allow having a good
rest and then it's another really long
working day and the story repeats itself
still pilots say that driving a car is a
much more frightening experience for
them than piloting a plane even if they
haven't
left enough hours lately yep I can
understand that one